What this project will fix, what it will keep stable, and what it does not
promise. Written for v0.0.30 — the release being built to LTS standard — and
kept deliberately narrower than a project this size is tempted to claim.
Security problems do not belong here. Report those privately:
[SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md).
Three things, and nothing more:
1. The surface stops moving. The CLI's flag names and their meanings, the
   HTTP endpoints and their request and response shapes, the settings file's
   location and format, and the on-disk layout of the model catalogue. A script
   or an editor integration written against an LTS release keeps working against
   every later patch of it.
2. Correctness bugs get fixed on it, not only on main.
3. Every claim in the release notes was measured on hardware, with the
   command line recorded. This project has retracted claims before; the ladder in
   [CHECKLIST.md](CHECKLIST.md) exists because of it.
It does not mean a support window in years. Chaos is written by one person.
Promising five years of patches would be the kind of claim this repository spends
its time removing, so the promise is structural instead: the newest LTS
release is supported until the next LTS release exists, and that is the whole
of it.
Numbers live in [STATUS.md](STATUS.md), not here. It is the canonical
scoreboard, it is machine-checked, and it is updated in the same commit as
anything that moves it — a second copy in this file would be a second copy to go
stale, which is exactly how SECURITY.md came to claim v0.0.0 through
twenty-three releases.
What that file records, in the shape it matters here:
- Architectures are supported only when they have been diffed against
  llama.cpp token for token on eight prompts. Anything else is refused by name
  and needs --force, which exists on the CLI and deliberately not on the
  server. A wrong forward pass produces fluent nonsense rather than a crash, so
  "it loaded and generated" is not evidence of support and is never treated as
  such.
- Tokenizers: one family is implemented but not verified against
  llama.cpp, because no container for it exists on the machine. STATUS.md names
  which. Treat it as unsupported until that changes.
- Quant types: whatever the linked ggml can decode. Chaos does not implement
  its own kernels for these and does not claim to.
- Platforms are supported when a model has actually been run there, not
  when the build is green. docs/graph/research/ carries a node per platform
  with the output. Windows and Linux qualify; the rest is in the next section.
Please do not open a public issue for a security problem.
Use GitHub's private reporting:
[Security → Report a vulnerability](https://github.com/aturzone/Chaos/security/advisories/new).
If that is unavailable to you, contact the maintainer through their GitHub
profile ([@aturzone](https://github.com/aturzone)) and ask for a private channel
before sending details.
Expect an acknowledgement within a week. This is a solo project, so please be
patient — and please do give it a reasonable disclosure window before publishing.
Chaos parses untrusted binary input: a GGUF container is a file that may
have come from anywhere on the internet, and its header declares offsets, sizes,
dimensions and types that the parser must not trust. The interesting bug classes
are therefore:
- Memory-safety issues reachable by parsing a malformed or hostile .gguf
  (out-of-bounds reads, integer overflow in offset or size arithmetic,
  allocation of an attacker-chosen size).
- Path traversal or unintended file access through shard discovery, which
  derives sibling file names from the path you pass it.
- Any way to make Chaos write outside paths the user explicitly named. Chaos
  opens model files read-only and should never write to them.
core/ggml contains unsafe FFI by necessity, and core/io's aligned buffers
use raw allocation. Both are the places to look.
(Until 2026-08-31 both paths named a crates/ directory that does not exist,
so this file sent security researchers somewhere unreachable. NOTICE had the
same defect and was fixed on 2026-08-28; this is the other file whose job is to
be accurate about where the code lives, and a test now checks both.)
- Model behaviour. What a model generates is not a Chaos vulnerability.
  Chaos runs weights; it does not endorse their output.
- Resource exhaustion from a model you chose to run. Asking Chaos to load a
  144 GB model and running out of memory is the documented behaviour, not a
  denial of service. Chaos reports what will not fit rather than failing
  silently, and that is the intended handling.
- ggml itself. Report those upstream to
  [ggml-org/ggml](https://github.com/ggml-org/ggml). If a ggml issue is reachable
  specifically through how Chaos calls it, that is in scope here.
- Anything requiring an attacker to already have local code execution as the
  user running Chaos.
Chaos sends nothing anywhere. There is no telemetry, no analytics, no crash
reporting and no update ping beyond the one request chaos-app makes to a static
JSON file on GitHub Releases to see whether a newer version exists — which
CHAOSNOUPDATECHECK turns off. Model downloads go to the host the user names.
The dependency list is the whole of the supply chain: Cargo.lock holds 22
packages and every one of them is a chaos- crate in this repository, plus a
statically linked ggml. There is nothing else to audit.
What a node does expose, measured. With --api-key set, the rule is the
peer, not the bind address: this machine is always allowed, and the network
needs the key.
From the network (measured from 192.168.1.105 against a node bound to that
address, with a key set):
GET /status      401      GET /qr    200   the mark, so a phone can scan it
GET /health      401      GET /scan  200   the reader
GET /v1/models   401      GET /      200   the browser page
GET /status  with the key 200
/status and /health name the model, so they are behind the key too. That
changed in v0.0.23: before it, anyone who could reach the port learned which model
you were running, its context size and the node's route without any key at all.
The machine itself is never gated, whatever the key. The window probes
/health on 127.0.0.1 to learn whether the server it just started is answering,
and chaos status reads /status the same way; gating by the bind address would
have broken both. chaos status sends the key as well, so it works against a
remote node.
The mark and the reader stay open deliberately. A stranger's phone has no key,
and pointing its camera at /qr is the entire point of them. /qr encodes the
route of a node whose address the caller already had in order to ask.
With no key configured nothing is gated at all — which is safe only because
the server binds 127.0.0.1 unless told otherwise. Choosing CORE is what opens
the route, and CORE generates a key rather than asking for one.
Chaos binds weights zero-copy: ggml tensors point directly into buffers
Chaos owns, and the safety of that arrangement rests on WeightSet outliving
every tensor that points into it. This is enforced by the borrow checker and
documented in core/ggml/src/weights.rs. If you find a way to defeat
it from safe code, that is a genuine finding and I want to hear about it.
Thanks for looking. Chaos is a small project with an unusual amount of written
reasoning behind it, and the fastest way to be useful is to read a little of it
before writing code.
 A performance claim is not citable until the competitor's exact command line
 and its output are in a document.
This exists because the project broke it. "llama.cpp cannot run a model larger
than RAM" survived for days on a misattributed error string, because nobody ran
the opposing command. When someone finally did, llama.cpp ran the 144 GB model
fine with --no-repack, and the project's central marketing claim evaporated.
So: run it, paste it, and flag it. A benchmark without the losing command line is
an opinion.
The same applies to your own changes. "This should be faster" is not a result.
The project's record on reasoning ahead of measurement is nought for four:
1. Read [docs/graph/INDEX.md](docs/graph/INDEX.md), then only the two or three
   nodes your task links to. The graph is large; reading it all is a waste.
2. Read [CLAUDE.md](CLAUDE.md). It is the project's short list of facts that
   cost real time to rediscover — things like ggml aborts the process when its
   arena is exhausted, and a wrong tokenizer produces fluent nonsense, never a
   crash. Each line there is a summary; the full text of all 38 is
   [docs/graph/reference/hard-won-facts.md](docs/graph/reference/hard-won-facts.md),
   and that one is worth reading in full before you propose an optimisation,
   because about half of its entries are the measurement that killed one.
export GGMLLIBDIR=/path/to/llama.cpp/build/ggml/src
cargo build --release
cargo test --release              # 999 tests
cargo test --release -- --ignored # 42 more, need a real model on disk
cargo clippy --workspace --all-targets -- -D warnings
cargo fmt --all --check
A GPU test with no GPU reports as a pass. Cargo has no third verdict, and a
green "6 passed" was once reported for a file whose two GPU tests never ran. Run
CHAOSREQUIREGPU=1 cargo test --release -p chaos-ggml
to turn every such skip into a failure. With GGMLLIBDIR pointed at a
